I think the number one mistake people
make in interpreting so-called YouTube
drama conflict debates discussions
between youtubers is of assigning some
other mode of some other agenda to the
conversation outside of prior to
unrelated to the conversation okay let
me tell you my conversation with Ryan
from happy healthy vegan was about
exactly what you see up on the surface
there was no hidden agenda there wasn't
something else I was driving at there
were some things I was trying to say
that I didn't get to say because he cut
me off or he kept changed the topic
conversation or reacting the way that he
did I find found Ryan's reactions a
little bit disorienting Ryan is not the
kind of person I normally have a
conversation with very different for me
talking to Ryan as opposed to talking to
someone like mod vegan you know I find
it you can listen to my hour-and-a-half
podcast with mod vegan what we're doing
a book review together and talking in a
really intellectually rigorous way about
vegan politics and activism etc I find
it really easy to follow Margaret's
train of thought in that podcast and by
contrast like Ryan saying some stuff to
me and I'm thinking what oh where are
you going if you hear the whole thing
you can see that there's some points or
just like how the hell did it take off
that direction so you know no shade but
yeah I think one of the ways in which
people just really misinterpret and
missed the point of these things is they
come to these discussions with some kind
of agenda and say oh he's only
confronting Ryan about this for some
other reason they ascribe some other
agenda a motive to it totally outside of
what's in the video what's in the
conversation and in this case let me
tell you that is not true at all if
there's one point one example I wish I
could have gotten across to Ryan and I
think he didn't get it I think he didn't
understand and I tried to bring it up at
a couple points and really wasn't
hearing it it would be the example of
Anna Scanlon
now Anna Scanlon this one example for me
has a lot of significance above and
beyond the experience of this one woman
on YouTube okay Anna Scanlon most of you
will not have heard of her she was a
normal person on YouTube what does that
mean she was a vegan she talked about
veganism she talked about vegan activism
she talked about vegan political theory
I remember she had a video talking about
the politics of why veganism was so
popular within Israel because as
something she knew about talking about
her own life experience but not only
talking about beam ISM why do I say
she's a normal person I mean she was not
selling a diet book she was not selling
you weight loss secrets she was not
trying to get famous she was not singing
and dancing there's nothing wrong with
singing and dancing
I just mean she was not an entertainer
she was not trying to be the next freely
she was not trying to be the next vegan
gains she was just trying to come on
internet as a vegan as a normal person
and share her perspective share what she
had to share and the truth is somebody
like her has a lot to share she has a
PhD in history she's much more of an
intellectual than the average voice of
veganism you see on YouTube when I
looked at someone like Anna Scanlon I
see somebody who has the real potential
to contribute to veganism as a movement
in the next five years okay I got love
for vegan gains I got love for Richard I
got respect for what he does and I can
never do what he does I am NOT gonna put
on a wig and sing a song I am NOT gonna
put on a wig and put on a fake Scottish
accent Richard vegan gains is an
entertainer okay I can totally respect
that but when I look at somebody like
Anna Scanlon or somebody like Maude
vegan I get excited for a different
reason because if there's one thing I
cannot imagine Richard doing its
standing in front of Parliament's at a
podium giving a deposition I can't see
him
playing an organizing role in a
bureaucratically complex situation at
City Hall at the Board of Education I
can't see him playing that rule and
that's fine Richard I got love for you I
got respect for you but what he does is
different
what veganism needs is not another 1000
people trying to be the next vegan gains
what we need are 10,000 people like Ana
Scanlon getting organized at local
Parliament at City Hall
creating foundations and you know what
when you create a foundation a guy like
vegan gains can contribute by doing the
fundraising by making an announcement on
his YouTube channel the entertainer's
the tiny minority of vegans who become
these types of famous personalities they
can totally play a positive role but
somebody has got to do the work somebody
has got to do the dismal hard work
bureaucratically putting together a
foundation lobbying government making
that positive change and I've heard so
many vegans complain the Humane Society
is corrupt and evil
pedda people the Ethical Treatment
animals is corrupt and evil I feel you I
really do stop complaining
put them in your shadow make something
better create an alternative don't chase
replace over a year ago I did this and
then just yesterday before making this
video I did it again I went to the
official Government of Canada listing of
registered charities okay my passport is
Canadian I'm Canadian citizen I went to
the Canadian registered charities list
and I searched for the word vegan in all
of Canada we make so much noise on the
Internet
do you want to know how many charities
come up when you search for the word
vegan one
and it's called the dun vegan Historical
Society dun vegan is just a Scottish
name D un if eg a it's a Scottish name
that happens to contain the letters
vegan there's not a single charity
listed on there that has vegan in its
name or vegan in its description there
are there are some foundations in Canada
that do some stuff related to veganism
but the Green Party is not vegan humane
society is not vegan if anything they're
anti vegan serious I'm not going to get
into it here but like the Green Party in
Canada is Pro meat industry and pro
dairy industry huge problems like that
in ecology okay we need to get organized
we need to make something positive
happen and we need people like Anna
Scanlon
we really do Anna Scanlon is not wearing
a bikini she's not selling a diet book
she's not singing she's not dancing I
look at someone like her with her PhD in
history coming on the internet talking
about her real life talking about things
of intellectual substance this is what
we need okay but the reality is Anna
Scanlon had a horribly traumatic
experience because of vegan cheetah Anna
Scanlon is on the list of people who
broke down crying who had all this
terrible stress brought into her life
who have deleted her YouTube channel who
disappeared from the internet and I hope
she hasn't disappeared from Megan
activism like forever because vegan
cheetah decided to defame her just to
entertain his audience he made up a
sordid
stupid story about a fake sexual liaison
he had with her on skype over the you
know they've never met face to face he
did it just for views he did it just for
infamy he did it just to get people
talking he did it just for people's
attention okay now look I am not perfect
and you heard me say in that
conversation with Ryan whether you heard
the eight-minute version or you heard
the 60-minute version I said to Ryan
repeatedly Ryan I have low standards I
have low expectations I don't expect you
to be perfect and I said
the cheetah in the past I was so
understanding where she died was so
forgiving to him up to a point up to a
point when he crossed the line into
defamation I was understanding okay
defamation for me is over the line being
in bad taste making jokes in bad taste
is not over the line even if you don't
like it even in front of defensive okay
I do not expect Ryan to be perfect and I
know I'm not perfect
I've had so many criticisms of
this channel but there are valid
criticisms okay when I have made videos
in bad taste when I have made videos
that offend people I would challenge you
not just to criticize the one sentence
that offends you but to consider the
video as a whole the argument and the
point I'm making a lotta you forget this
cuz it's such a long time ago there was
a time when people hated me hated me
because I dared to mention that freely
has fake breasts which is our simple way
of saying in English breast augmentation
surgery okay there are people who felt
that was in bad taste that it was
insulting and denigrating for me to say
that okay I think that's a valid
criticism but watch the video as a whole
I did not make a video just insulting
freely for no reason
it's not a drama video it's a really
meaningful video talking about political
problems in veganism talking about
pseudoscience and bad diet advice that
video I don't I'm happy that what one
day my daughter can watch it I am not
ashamed of that video if you feel it's
crossing a line for me to say in that
video for a good reason you know what I
think people are forgetting freelee the
banana girl she's very skinny and she
presents this image of femininity and
being curvy and athletic but you know
what she's not just lying to you about
her diet advice back at that time she
had never made these videos admitting
but you know part of the thing part
of the part of her fame part of her rise
to fame as a beauty icon has to do with
the fact that she has fake breasts and
that does matter because freely was
somebody who claims she would never eat
a mango if it wasn't Organa
she was somebody who believed so much in
this ideology of nature and natural
medicine and natural Heidi she said you
should never use shampoo and you should
never use soap and they mean so many
crazy statements you should never use
medicine because medicine is unnatural
this is somebody took on an ultra ante
scientific anti modern medicine
perspective who preached so much
on the basis of an ideology of
what nature means and at the same time
the reality is she has the ultimate
unnatural medical procedure she had
surgery to have fake press it matters
it's not meaningless what I do is not
just gossip
even if you take that out of context and
say this is so immoral and so wrong for
you to say that freely as fake press but
I understand I'm not perfect okay if
you're so offended by the fact that I
mentioned freely has fake breasts you
can't hear the rest of the message I
understand
Ryan from happy healthy vegan you have
taken on the role of policing other
people's YouTube content I don't know
why you felt I was crossing a line in
making a video in which I said in
passing Nina and Randa are not that
attractive
if Nina and Randa go to an audition in
Los Angeles the other girls at that
audition the other young women at that
audition for that same part Nina and
Aranda are not going to look outstanding
Lee beautiful compared to the other
girls that dition in LA okay if you feel
that's over the line
I understand but guess what that video
as a whole
watch the first seven minutes of that
video it's not about whether or not Nina
and Randa are attractive it's not a hot
or not video and hundreds of people have
made those videos there are hundreds
people mean hot hot or not videos top
ten lists sexiest begins all that crap
exists on the internet that's a video
with a really sincere really important
message that I still stand by and that
I've defended against criticism
repeatedly and said no this video is
making a really
Gordon point about the role of
leadership about major issues and
important questions and veganism and
that video is in large part inspired by
the fact that I've been reading the
academic literature the debates going on
within veganism and animal rights and I
was amazed at the low intellectual
caliber of what was being published by
people with PhDs I'm amazed at the low
intellectual caliber of what's said by
major leaders like Gary Yourofsky Gary
France Ian a you know that video there's
such a long list of names it's not just
a budding writer there's more than 20
names of important vegans criticised
okay if any of these things were true a
vegan cheetah it would be different if
vegan cheetah had made an insulting
comment about Anna Scanlon in passing in
the context of a video that was
sincerely trying to support a better
future for the vegan movement the way
that video my video that mentions
meaning right the way that was if there
was any validity if there was any good
intention behind what cheetah was doing
here it would be different okay if Anna
Scanlon had quit YouTube over a
controversy in which cheetah had
criticized her about the actual contents
of her videos of politically or in terms
of animal rights ethics any of these
controversial issues whether it's
vivisection or pet ownership or
domestication or there's so many real
and important debates that would be
different okay that's not the situation
we're in Ryan the situation we are in is
that cheetah is defaming people just for
the sake of the defamation itself he's
really harming people with real malice
and it really damages the movement and
if Anna Scanlon was the only one if she
was the only example this would still be
of tremendous significance because for
every one person like Anna Scanlon who
has the courage to come here on the
Internet
I know there are 10,000 who say to me
who sent me email saying they would
never open a YouTube channel because
they are afraid they are living in fear
of the consequences not the consequences
from the meat industry not the
consequences from bacon eating trolls
the consequences from other vegans the
sheer malice and shallowness and
pettiness and gossip mongering the
defamation and threats of violence from
people like durianrider and people like
vegan cheetah the hostility and danger
created within the vegan movement it's
created by other vegans and it's created
for no legitimate reason it's not
because they wanted to be vivisection
it's not because they want to debate
abolition versus meatless Mondays okay
look there are so many legitimate
debates Anna Scanlon is an important
example in herself but she represents
thousands out there who are voiceless
and who are gonna remain voiceless and
those people do send me email I get
emails from people all the time telling
me that I'm so brave because I put up
with this I endure the defamation I keep
coming back even though I've suffered so
much just for speaking publicly about
veganism and I've suffered so much at
the hands of my fellow vegans I get
those emails I get emails from people
who are my viewers and they say I'd love
to do what you're doing you're so brave
but I'm a school teacher I work in the
school system but I'm an architect but I
have some respectable job so I can't
risk it what are they talking about
we're seeing they can't risk that what's
happened to me threats of violence
defamation accusations lies that they
can't risk if that will happen to them
they can't risk that what happened to
Anna Scanlon vegan cheetah inventing a
story like this they can't risk that
it'll happen to them
Ryan I appreciate your sincerity I don't
think you were phony with me at all but
I think you really don't get it I think
you are only thinking short-term about
the next video you upload and you're not
thinking about the future of the
movement I think you were completely
sincere in making a decision in
isolation to make a video asking me to
apologize Nina Randa I don't think you
had any bad motives I I I really
disliked the video you made because I
think you misrepresent what I said and
why I said it it is damaging to me I
don't like that but hey okay and Ryan at
some point short-term thinking starts to
resemble evil for the record Ryan I
really tried to start in a positive
footing with you I started I started by
talking about the weather and then I
started talking about Buddhism I started
talking about the fact that I have a
background that you know nothing about
because you don't watch my channel I
have a background as a real scholar of
Buddhism I actually learned to read
pally the ancient language in which the
Buddhist Canon is preserved the original
writings that form Buddhist philosophy
in ancient India before Buddhism was
exported to Tibet and Japan and China I
thought I could try to build with you on
the common ground that we have okay I
did repeatedly also apart from starting
in that positive manner I repeatedly
said to you I don't expect you to be
perfect I don't expect you to solve my
problems don't expect you to fight my
battles for me I made so many excuses
for you in that conversation really
offering you kind of peace offering
you're setting up common ground trying
to build in something positive and Ryan
I don't think you're cynical I don't
think you have any bad motives but
looking back on that conversation if I
ask why did you fail to respond
positively why did you fail to build on
that common ground I think it's the same
answer as why you have failed
to recognize why the damage done by
durianrider is so serious why the damage
done by cheetah is so serious and why
it's necessary for people of principle
to stand up and draw a line and say no
more say I think the reason why you
didn't build in that common ground is
because you're not thinking about even
the next five years you're not thinking
about what you can do that's positive
for the vegan movement and you're not
thinking about the danger of what these
other people are doing that's negative
for the moment the profound influence
somebody like durianrider who made
threats of violence against people
before he made threats against me who
defame people before he made threats
against me and you you Ryan you never
had a problem with it you kept promoting
durianrider on your channel and vice
versa hoping during Ryder promote you
you were just chasing your a little bit
of YouTube fame you're a little bit of
YouTube income you didn't give a
you never took a stand when one scandal
after another was created by durianrider
and now you've never taken a stand when
one scandal after another is created by
cheetah the ultimate outcome of this
constant internecine mean-spirited
scandal mongering the defamation the
threats of violence the outcome is that
the only people who can use YouTube to
talk about veganism or people like
durianrider are people who aren't
damaged emotionally or professionally
like in terms of their work life by
accusations of being a pedophile
on the Internet ok durianrider made
false allegations against me that i was
a pedophile and as you know cheetah at
one point made false allegations against
durianrider
claiming that durianrider is a pedophile
and durianrider nevertheless turned
around and made friends with cheetah and
cooperated with cheetah okay
people like durianrider are in the tiny
minority who will still come on the
internet and play this game when those
are the rules of the game was played by
people like Ana Scanlon are not
we're losing the people who can make a
positive difference all right
that ultimately is the price we're
paying because of people like you Ryan
and people like durianrider and people
like cheetah and you know at bottom when
you put aside the more salacious aspects
that when you put aside the fact that
durianrider threatened to kick my ass he
threatened to beat me up and pull me
into a police station we set aside the
fact that I am still in you know divorce
hearings negotiations for custody of my
own daughter and the damage that could
be done to my life by this kind of a
legate you know we put aside all of the
more dramatic elements what really is at
the basis of durianrider shaming and
denigrating people this way what really
is the basis of chichi de shaming and
denigrating people it's way you know
like the basic thing that both of them
have tried to slander me with is the
idea that I'm a I'm a vegan who's
sleeping around now in my case that's
not true that hasn't been true there are
vegans in Chiangmai who are sleeping
around okay and I don't think any of
them deserve this treatment you know I
have videos criticizing Ted car
Ted car he talks about his lifestyle I
would never a shame
Ted Carr for the fact that he pretty
openly says he's going to Chiangmai
meeting vegan women
he's doesn't believe in commitment he
has open relationships
he pretty much spells it out for you
that he's there sleeping around there's
a couple I'm sorry I forget their names
there's a husband and wife couple or
boyfriend/girlfriend couple in Chiangmai
two white people and they are a big
force they're organizers behind the
Winter Taif root festival they have an
open relationship they have a ton of
videos talking about their sex lives
they sleep around okay how how can it
possibly be except let me look when I
look at people like that when I look at
people I take are the fundamental reason
why I don't take them seriously is that
I can't imagine them making a positive
commitment to the vegan movement in the
next five years I can't imagine them
getting organized at City Hall and
Parliament or any of those things said
before but even so I don't wish that on
Ted car I don't wish that any of those
people none of these people deserve to
be dragged out and slandered and
humiliated for their sex lives just
because they dare to talk about veganism
on the internet like they're not even
vegan activists they're just people who
talk about vegan activism they're not
even people who are saving the planet
that just people come out and talk about
their aspiration to save the planet to
have this positive impact to make this
contribution there's this this terrible
risk there are these terrible
consequences added on to just being
vegan on YouTube because people like
durianrider
and people like cheetah try to earn
their living by humiliating you by
dragging your private life out into the
public it's shameful it's really
shameful Ryan and I don't know why it is
you sleepwalk through life and you can't
look in the mirror and see what's
shameful about the role you've played in
it and I know hundreds of people
writing to you when the controversy
between me and durianrider happened and
explaining to you just how shameful it
was for you okay you chose to play this
role policing the vegan demi-monde here
on YouTube you choose to make videos
demanding that people apologize for
things they say even when the things
that really if you look back at it Ryan
are really trivial like my comment about
Nina and Randa in the context of that
video a video that has a point a video
that's not just shaming and humiliating
someone okay you've chosen to take on
that role Ryan and you can change you
can say you're not gonna define you can
play about whatever rules you want to
play by okay actions have consequences
Ryan and the people you associate with
the people you're promoting like
durianrider and like cheetah when they
do immoral acts that really have
consequences on individual people's
lives that hurt me that hurt Anna
Scanlon that hurt so many other people
you've got to reflect on that and you
got to reflect on the fact that long
term they're hurting the vegan movement
itself I'm gonna read you one email I
got so that it's not just me I'm not
gonna use your real name I'm just gonna
say her name is Amy it's not a real name
I'm gonna read this real quickly Ryan
it's not just me I got this email from
someone who's one of your viewers one of
your regular viewers Ryan happy healthy
vegan she writes
aisel I want just want to take a moment
to commend you on taking a moral stance
of principled on your stream with happy
healthy vegan I myself am a vegan who
has watched vegan content on YouTube for
a few years now and never have I seen
such deliberate slander and toxicity
than I have from cheetah it is
absolutely disgusting to me and to be
frank blows my mind how people still
endorse and support this man after the
horrid things he said and done the
allegations of
calling you a fraud and a wife-beater
he's called me a fraud and a wife-beater
the way he mocked tofu Tommy's eating
disorder by pretending to cry and vomit
in a bucket on you now
reducing Tommy to tears and suicidal
thoughts the way he mocked vegan lasses
appearance calling her an alien the way
he made fun of Joe vegan calling him but
calling him a joke for raising a baby on
a supermarket cashier salary on tumblr
the way he humiliated Anna Scanlon and
brought her to tears the way he told a
viewer to go to go take care of his
child how on earth can these
people especially ethical vegans support
such horrid and disgusting behavior like
this so when I saw the broadcast you
were on with Ryan it was such a relief
to see a vegan content vegan content
creator call out one of their peers for
giving such a malicious person a
platform if Ryan was a man of his morals
he wouldn't want to give Charles an inch
of the platform he has and a lot of us
are very impressed to see you call him
out on this it really showed that you
were a man of your word and you stand on
principle I just wanted to quickly
commend you on that it was nice to see
someone finally stand up and call out
this immoral behavior in the community
disappointing to see from Ryan and it
was amazing to see you take a stand like
that Ryan if you have 10,000 people
telling you that you're in the right and
I'm in the wrong wake up and here's why
somebody like vegan cheetah will always
have more viewers than I do
will always have more fans than I do
will always have more supporters than I
do
someone like durianrider no matter how
many times you make threats of violence
against people you made threats of
violence against women - no matter how
immoral and disgraceful during writers
channel becomes durianrider will always
have more fans than I do
durianrider and cheetah will always have
more people telling them they're right
and I'm sure Ryan you will always have
more people telling you that you're
right also this is supposed to be about
saving the animals this is suppose
to be a modi khola lead is supposed to
be saving the planet what I've got to
ask you Ryan seriously is which group of
people are going to do that which group
of people are actually going to get
organized go to City Hall make a
foundation that's better than Peeta
better than the Humane Society which
group of people are actually gonna lay
the groundwork which group of people are
actually gonna lay the groundwork for
saving the planet it's not the ten
thousand teenagers who are backing up
vegan cheetah and cheering him on when
he does these disgraceful things it's
not the twenty thousand people who were
backing up and supporting durianrider
when he was threatening to have a gang
of people beat me up in the streets
those people exist and they've got
numbers but they don't have the
discipline they don't have the morals
they don't have the motivation to
actually make this vegan movement matter
I'm asking you to care a Ryan about the
opinions of the ethical minority within
ethical veganism maybe a million people
support durianrider maybe a million
people support vegan cheetah on some
level Ryan you must be able to
appreciate what we're doing here is not
the same as a popularity contest between
two channels that just do reviews of
makeup and beauty products it's not the
same as a Nisshin getting into a spute
dispute with Jaclyn Glan it's not the
same as two entertainment channels or
two video game channels or two
comic-book channels ultimately this is
rooted in a ethical demand in a
political struggle to save the planet
think about how differently you would be
behaving Ryan if even one video out of
ten on your channel were sincerely
motivated by that concern by that
catchphrase we throw it so casually save
the planet
this this letter of just read to you
from Amy I don't care if she's one
person in a thousand or one person in a
million I don't care how rare it is it's
people like her
it's people like Anna Scanlon who really
in the next five years in the next 50
years can make the difference that
veganism desperately needs to make so
Ryan I'm asking you to appreciate the
importance of her voice and the
importance of my voice and to
re-evaluate the perspective you've taken
on people like durianrider on people
like vegan cheetah